Add documentation for Jenkins Converter - Developer Hub (#4605)
circleci/circleci-docs: jekyll/_cci2/jenkins-converter.md

---
layout: classic-docs
title: "Introduction to Jenkins Converter"
short-title: "Jenkins Converter Introduction"
description: "Starting point for how to use the Jenkins Converter"
categories: [getting-started]
order: 1
---

> The Jenkins Converter is a web tool that allows you to easily convert a Jenkinsfile to a CircleCI config.yml, helping you get started on building on CircleCI quickly and easily. It can be accessed at https://circleci.com/developer/tools/jenkins-converter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Jenkins Converter is a web tool that allows you to easily convert a Jenkinsfile to a CircleCI config.yml, helping you to get started building on CircleCI quickly and easily. It can be accessed at https://circleci.com/developer/tools/jenkins-converter.
```

> Currently, the converter only supports declarative Jenkinsfiles. While the number of supported plug-ins and steps continue to be expanded, the hope is that this tool gets you started at least 50% of the way, and makes it easier for you to get started on building on CircleCI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, the converter only supports declarative Jenkinsfiles. While the number of supported plug-ins and steps continue to be expanded, the hope is that this tool gets you started at least 50% of the way, and makes it easier for you to get started building on CircleCI.
```

## Limitations

* A limited number of syntaxes and plugins are supported. Jenkinsfiles relying on unsupported syntaxes and plugins cannot be converted. Please manually remove them.

* Only `Default` is supported as a tool name for `maven`, `jdk` and `gradle` in the [`tools` block](https://www.jenkins.io/doc/book/pipeline/syntax/#tools), and other names will cause conversion failures. Please configure them as follows or remove them manually.

  For example, the following stanza:
  ```
  tools {
    maven 'Maven 3.6.3'
    jdk 'Corretto 8.232'
  }
  ```
  should be changed to:
  ```
  tools {
    maven 'Default'
    jdk 'Default'
  }
  ```

## Next Steps After Conversion

### Executors

A static Docker executor, [cimg/base](https://github.com/CircleCI-Public/cimg-base), is inserted as the [executor](https://circleci.com/docs/reference-2-1/#executors) regardless of the one defined within the Jenkinsfile input.

> Given that `cimg/base` is a very lean image, it's highly likely that your project will require a different executor. [CircleCI's convenience images](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/circleci-images/) are a good place to find other images. Refer to [custom Docker image](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/custom-images/) for advanced steps to create your own custom image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Given that `cimg/base` is a very lean image, it's highly likely that your project will require a different image. [CircleCI's convenience images](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/circleci-images/) are a good place to find other images. Refer to [custom Docker image](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/custom-images/) for advanced steps to create your own custom image.
```

Reviewer: I wonder if actually instead of linking to https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/circleci-images/ here we should link to the new developer hub images listing?

Author: great idea, changed the link

> Depending on the use case, you may require the usage of a [machine executor](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/executor-types/#using-machine) when your application requires full access to OS resources and the job environment, or the [macOS executor](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/executor-types/#using-macos).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depending on the use case, you might require the [machine executor](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/executor-types/#using-machine) if your application requires full access to OS resources and the job environment, or the [macOS executor](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/executor-types/#using-macos).
```

### Workflows

> [CircleCI Workflows](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/workflows/) (the equivalent of Jenkins pipelines) should be fully transferred from your Jenkinsfile to config.yml, including branch filters. The converter will not transfer over any [scheduled builds](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/configuration-reference/#triggers) to prevent unintentional builds from being triggered.

Reviewer: Does this mean workflows are transferred by our Jenkinsfile converter? Or that people need to do this manually?

Author: they're transferred--i committed a change to make this more explicit

| environment        | [environment](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/env-vars/)                                           | [Unsupported](https://github.com/circleci/jenkinsfile-converter/issues/26)                                                                           |
| options            | N/A                                                                                              | See [Supported Jenkins Plugins](#supported-jenkins-plugins)                           |
| parameters         | [parameters](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/reusing-config/#using-the-parameters-declaration)     | Unsupported                                                                           |
| triggers           | [cron](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/workflows/#scheduling-a-workflow)                           | Unsupported                                                                           |
| stage              | [job](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/configuration-reference/#jobs)                               | Supported                                                                             |

## Supported Jenkins plugins

> **Note: Jenkinsfiles relying on plugins not listed below cannot be converted**. Please remove stanzas relying on those unsupported plugins (for example `options`), otherwise <u>you will see an error message saying something is "Unknown" or "Invalid"</u>. Please submit a ticket with our support center if you have a request to add a plugin to the list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note: Jenkinsfiles relying on plugins not listed below cannot be converted**. Please remove stanzas relying on those unsupported plugins (for example `options`), otherwise **you will see an error message saying something is "Unknown" or "Invalid"**. Please submit a ticket with our support center if you have a request to add a plugin to the list.
```

---
layout: classic-docs
title: "Introduction to Jenkins Converter"
short-title: "Jenkins Converter Introduction"
description: "Starting point for how to use the Jenkins Converter"
categories: [getting-started]
order: 1
---

> ## Introduction to Jenkins Converter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

The Jenkins Converter is a web tool that allows you to easily convert a Jenkinsfile to a CircleCI config.yml, helping you get started on building on CircleCI quickly and easily. It can be accessed at https://circleci.com/developer/tools/jenkins-converter.

> Currently, the converter only supports declarative Jenkinsfiles. While the number of supported plug-ins and steps continue to be expanded, we hope that this tool gets you started at least 50% of the way, and makes it easier for you to get started on building on CircleCI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Currently, the converter only supports declarative Jenkinsfiles. While the number of supported plug-ins and steps continue to be expanded, the hope is that this tool gets you started at least 50% of the way, and makes it easier for you to get started on building on CircleCI.
```

## Limitations

> * Limited number of syntaxes and plugins are supported. Jenkinsfiles relying on unsupported syntaxes and plugins cannot be converted. Please manually remove them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* A limited number of syntaxes and plugins are supported. Jenkinsfiles relying on unsupported syntaxes and plugins cannot be converted. Please manually remove them.
```

> * Only `Default` is supported as a tool name for `maven`, `jdk` and `gradle` in the [`tools` block](https://www.jenkins.io/doc/book/pipeline/syntax/#tools), and other names will cause conversion failures. Please configure them appropriately or remove them manually.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Only `Default` is supported as a tool name for `maven`, `jdk` and `gradle` in the [`tools` block](https://www.jenkins.io/doc/book/pipeline/syntax/#tools), and other names will cause conversion failures. Please configure them as follows or remove them manually.
```

  For example, the following stanza:
  ```
  tools {
    maven 'Maven 3.6.3'
    jdk 'Corretto 8.232'
  }
  ```
  should be changed to:
  ```
  tools {
    maven 'Default'
    jdk 'Default'
  }
  ```

## Next Steps After Conversion

### Executors

> For the time being, a static Docker executor, [cimg/base](https://github.com/CircleCI-Public/cimg-base), is inserted as the [executor](https://circleci.com/docs/reference-2-1/#executors) regardless of the one defined within the Jenkinsfile input.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A static Docker executor, [cimg/base](https://github.com/CircleCI-Public/cimg-base), is inserted as the [executor](https://circleci.com/docs/reference-2-1/#executors) regardless of the one defined within the Jenkinsfile input.
```

> Given that this is a very lean image, it's highly likely that your project will require a different executor. [CircleCI's convenience images](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/circleci-images/) are a good place to get started, while more advanced users may be ready to base their project off a [custom Docker image](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/custom-images/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Given that `cimg/base` is a very lean image, it's highly likely that your project will require a different executor. [CircleCI's convenience images](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/circleci-images/) are a good place to find other images. Refer to [custom Docker image](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/custom-images/) for advanced steps to create your own custom image.
```

Depending on the use case, you may require the usage of a [machine executor](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/executor-types/#using-machine) when your application requires full access to OS resources and the job environment, or the [macOS executor](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/executor-types/#using-macos).

### Workflows

> [CircleCI Workflows](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/workflows/) (the equivalent of Jenkins pipelines) should be fully transferred from your Jenkinsfile to config.yml, including branch filters. We've made a conscious decision to not transfer over any [scheduled builds](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/configuration-reference/#triggers) to prevent unintentional builds from being triggered.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[CircleCI Workflows](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/workflows/) (the equivalent of Jenkins pipelines) should be fully transferred from your Jenkinsfile to config.yml, including branch filters. The converter will not transfer over any [scheduled builds](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/configuration-reference/#triggers) to prevent unintentional builds from being triggered.
```

### Jobs

> Many of the configuration options within CircleCI jobs don't have equivalents to Jenkins' offerings. We recommend starting with the following features to get a richer experience from CircleCI:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Many of the configuration options within CircleCI jobs don't have equivalents to Jenkins' offerings. It is best practice to start with the following features to get a richer experience from CircleCI:
```

- [Checkout code](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/configuration-reference/#checkout)
- [Resource class](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/configuration-reference/#resource_class)
- [Parallelism](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/configuration-reference/#parallelism)
- Caches, [saving](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/configuration-reference/#save_cache) and [restoring](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/configuration-reference/#restore_cache)
- [Store Artifacts](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/configuration-reference/#store_artifacts)

### Steps

> While the Jenkinsfile Converter does its best to directly translate steps, we're still short of full coverage. To address this, we've added the `JFC_STACK_TRACE` key to specific steps within the output YAML to provide some guidance on how to proceed with unsupported step directives.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While the Jenkinsfile Converter attempts to directly translate steps, it does not provide full translation of all steps. To address this, the `JFC_STACK_TRACE` key was added to translate specific steps within the output YAML and to provide some guidance on how to proceed with unsupported step directives.
```

| environment        | [environment](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/env-vars/)                                           | [Unsupported](https://github.com/circleci/jenkinsfile-converter/issues/26)                                                                           |
| options            | N/A                                                                                              | See [Supported Jenkins Plugins](#supported-jenkins-plugins)                           |
| parameters         | [parameters](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/reusing-config/#using-the-parameters-declaration)     | Unsupported                                                                           |
| triggers           | [cron](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/workflows/#scheduling-a-workflow)                           | Unsupported                                                                           |
| stage              | [job](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/configuration-reference/#jobs)                               | Supported                                                                             |

## Supported Jenkins plugins

> **Important Note: Jenkinsfiles relying on plugins not listed below cannot be converted**. Please remove stanzas relying on those unsupported plugins (e.g. `options`), otherwise <u>you will see an error message saying something is "Unknown" or "Invalid"</u>. Please submit a ticket with our support center if you have a request to add a plugin to the list.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note: Jenkinsfiles relying on plugins not listed below cannot be converted**. Please remove stanzas relying on those unsupported plugins (for example `options`), otherwise <u>you will see an error message saying something is "Unknown" or "Invalid"</u>. Please submit a ticket with our support center if you have a request to add a plugin to the list.
```

- Branch API Plugin (`branch-api`)
- Pipeline: Multibranch (`workflow-multibranch`)
- Authentication Tokens API Plugin (`authentication-tokens`)
- Docker Commons Plugin (`docker-commons`)
- Docker Pipeline (`docker-workflow`)
- Pipeline: Stage Tags Metadata (`pipeline-stage-tags-metadata`)
- Pipeline: Declarative Agent API (`pipeline-model-declarative-agent`)
- Pipeline: Declarative (`pipeline-model-definition`)
- Lockable Resources plugin (`lockable-resources`)
- Pipeline (`workflow-aggregator`)
- GitHub API Plugin (`github-api`)
- Jenkins Git plugin (`git`)
- GitHub plugin (`github`)
- GitHub Branch Source Plugin (`github-branch-source`)
- Pipeline: GitHub Groovy Libraries (`pipeline-github-lib`)
- MapDB API Plugin (`mapdb-api`)
- Jenkins Subversion Plug-in (`subversion`)
- SSH Build Agents plugin (`ssh-slaves`)
- Matrix Authorization Strategy Plugin (`matrix-auth`)
- PAM Authentication plugin (`pam-auth`)
- LDAP Plugin (`ldap`)
- Email Extension Plugin (`email-ext`)
- H2 API Plugin (`h2-api`)
- Config File Provider Plugin (`config-file-provider`)
- Pipeline Maven Integration Plugin (`pipeline-maven`)
- Pipeline Utility Steps (`pipeline-utility-steps`)

## Feedback

> To share any general feedback regarding this project with the CircleCI team, please submit a ticket with our Support team (TODO: link with proper ticket tagging).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To share any general feedback regarding this project, submit a ticket with our CircleCI Support team.
```
